having any ammo left in the barn when
this one is over with if there's going
to be any movement in this debate if
there's going to be any movement in the
polls George Bush is going to have to go
through what caused it
then I think frankly that the stakes are
high enough that he'll try to grant me
welcome to this third and final debate
among the three candidates for president
of the United States Governor Bill
Clinton the Democratic nominee President
George Bush the Republican nominee
I am Jim Lehrer of the macneil/lehrer
Newshour on PBS I will be the moderator
for this debate which is being sponsored
by the Commission on presidential
debates it will be 90 minutes long it is
happening before an audience on the
campus of Michigan State University in
East Lansing the format was conceived by
and agreed to by representatives of the
Bush and Clinton campaigns and it is
somewhat different than those used in
the earlier debates I will ask questions
for the first half under rules that
permit follow-ups a panel of three other
journalists will ask questions in the
second half under rules that do not as
always each candidate will have two
minutes up to two minutes to make a
closing statement the order of those as
well as that for the formal questioning
we're all determined by a drawing
gentlemen again welcome and again good
evening it seems from what some of those
voters said at your Richmond debate and
from polling and other data that each of
you fairly or not faces serious voter
concerns about the underlying
credibility and believability of what
each of you says you would do as
president in the next four years
Governor Clinton in accordance with the
draw those concerns about you are first
you are promising to create jobs reduce
the deficit reform the health care
system rebuild the infrastructure
guarantee college education for everyone
who is qualified among many other things
all with financial pain only for the
very rich some people are having trouble
apparently believing that is possible
should they have that concern no there
are many people who believe that the
only way we can get this country turned
around is to tax the middle class more
and punish them more but the truth is
that middle class Americans are
basically the only group of Americans
who have been taxed more in the 1980s
and during the last 12 years even though
their incomes have gone down the
wealthiest Americans have been taxed
much less even though their incomes
have gone up middle-class people will
have their fair share of changing to do
and many challenges to face including
the challenge of becoming constantly
reeducate 'add but my plan is a
departure from trickle-down economics
just cutting taxes on the wealthiest
Americans and getting out of the way
it's also a departure from tax-and-spend
economics because you can't tax and
divide an economy that isn't growing I
propose an American version of what
works in other countries I think we can
do it better invest and grow I believe
we can increase investment and reduce
the deficit at the same time if we not
only ask the wealthiest Americans and
foreign corporations to pay their fair
share we also provide over a hundred
billion dollars in tax relief in terms
of incentives for new plants new small
businesses new technologies new housing
and for middle-class families and we
have a hundred and forty billion dollars
of spending cuts invest and growth
raise some more money spend the money on
tax incentives to have growth in the
private sector take the money from the
defense cuts and reinvest it in new
transportation and communications and
environmental cleanup systems this will
work on this is on so many other issues
I have a fundamental difference from the
present administration
I don't believe trickle-down economics
will work unemployment is up most people
are working harder for less money than
they were making ten years ago I think
we can do better if we have the courage
to change mr. president a response one
minute just the ground rose here roughly
was admit it we can we can loosen that
up a little bit go ahead he done like
trickle-down government but I think he's
talking about the Reagan Bush years
where we created 15 million jobs the
rich are paying a bigger percent of the
total tax burden and what I don't like
is trickle-down government and they're
in i think governor clinton keeps
talking about trickle-down trickle-down
and he's still talking about spending
more and taxing more government he says
invest government grow government
government doesn't create jobs if they
do their make work jobs it's the private
sector that creates jobs and yes we've
got too many taxes
American people and we're spending too
much and that's why I want to get the
deficit down by controlling the growth
of mandatory spending it won't be
painless I think mr. Perot put his
finger on something there it won't be
painless but we've got to get the job
done but not by raising taxes Mr and Mrs
America when you hear him say we're
going to tax only the rich watch your
wallet because his figures don't add up
and he's gonna suck it right to the
middle class taxpayer and lower if he's
gonna pay for all the spending programs
he proposed so we have a big difference
on this trickle-down theory I do not
want any more trickle-down government
it's gotten too big I want to do
something about that mr. Perot what do
you think of the governor's approach
what do you just laid out a basic
problem with it it doesn't balance the
budget if you forecast it out we still
have a significant deficit under each of
their plans as I understand them our
challenge is to stop the financial
bleeding if you take a patient into the
hospital it's bleeding our Carolee step
one is to stop the bleeding
and we are bleeding our tearily there's
only one way out of this and that is to
stop the deterioration of our job base
to have a growing expanding job base to
give us the tax base see balancing the
budget is not nearly as difficult as
paying off the four trillion dollar debt
and leaving our children the American
Dream intact
we have spent their money we've got to
pay it back this is going to take fair
shared sacrifice my plan balances the
budget within six years we didn't do it
faster than that because we didn't want
to disrupt the economy we gave it off to
a slow start and a fast finish to give
the economy time to recover but we faced
it and we did it and we believe it's
fair shared sacrifice the one thing I
have done is lay it squarely on the
table in front of the American people
you've had a number of occasions to see
in detail what the plan is and at least
you'll understand it I think that's
fundamental in our country that you know
what you're getting into
governor the word pain one of the other
leadership things that's put on you is
that you don't speak of pain that you
speak of
all things there is a nobody's gonna
really have to suffer under your plan
you've heard what what mr. Perot is said
he said it's got this to do the things
that you want to do you can't do it by
just taking the money from the rich
that's what the president says as well
how do you respond to that if their
numbers don't add up for one thing let
me just follow up here I disagree with
with mr. Perot that the answer is to
raise put a 50 cent gas tax on the
middle class and raise more taxes on the
middle class and the working poor than
on the wealthy his own analysis says
that unemployment will be slightly
higher in 1995 under his plan than it is
today and as far as what mr. Bush says
he is the person who raised taxes in the
middle class after saying he wouldn't
and just this year mr. Bush vetoed a tax
increase on the wealthy that gave middle
class tax relief he vetoed middle class
tax relief this year and furthermore
under this administration spending is
increased more than it has in the last
twenty years and he asked Congress to
spend more money that actually spent now
it's hard to outspend Congress but he
tried to for the last three years so my
view is the middle class is that what
they've been suffering Jim now should
people pay more for Medicare if they can
yes should they pay more for Social
Security if they get more out of it than
they paid in their upper income people
yes but look what's happened to the
middle class middle class Americans are
working harder for less money than they
were making ten years ago and they're
paying higher taxes the tax burden on
them has not gone down it has gone up I
don't think the answer is to slow the
economy down more drive unemployment up
more and undermine the health of the
private sector the answer is to invest
and grow this economy that's what works
in other countries and that's what will
work here as a practical matter mr.
president do you agree with the governor
when he says that the middle class the
taxes on the middle class do your
numbers agree that the middle the taxes
on the middle class have gone up during
the during the live everybody's paying
too much taxes he refers to one tax
increase let me remind you it was a
democratic tax increase and I didn't
want to do it and I went along with it
and I said I make a mistake if I make a
mistake I admit it that's quite
different than some but I think that's
the American Way
I think everyone's paying too much but I
this idea that you can go out and he
then he hits me for vetoing a tax bill
yes I did and the American taxpayer
ought to be glad they have a president
to stand up to a spending Congress we
remember what it was like when we had a
spending president and a spending
Congress and interest rates who
remembers that they were 21 and a half
percent under Jimmy Carter and inflation
was fifteen we don't want to go back to
that and so yes everybody's taxed too
much and I want to get the taxes down
but not by signing a tax bill that's
gonna raise taxes on people mr.
president when you said just then that
mistake you've met your mistakes and you
looked at governor clinton and said what
mistake is it that you want him to admit
to well the record in Arkansas I mean
look at it and that's what we're asking
America to have now look he says
Arkansas the poor state they are but in
almost every category they're lagging
I'll give you an example he talks about
all the jobs he's created in one or two
years over the last ten years since he's
been governor there's 30 percent behind
30 percent there's 30 percent of the
national average on pay for teachers on
all these categories Arkansas is right
near the very bottom you haven't heard
me mention this before but we're getting
close now and I think it's about time I
start putting things in perspective and
I'm going to do that it's not dirty
campaigning because he's been talking
about my record for half of half a year
here 11 months here and so we've got to
do that I got to get it in perspective
what's its mistake admit it that
Arkansas is doing very very badly
against any standard environment support
for police officers whatever it is
governor is that true mr. Bush's Bureau
of Labor Statistics says that Arkansas
ranks first in the country in the growth
of new jobs this year first issue fourth
in manufacturing jobs fourth in the
reduction of poverty fourth an income
increase over the last 10 years we
created manufacturing jobs much more
rapidly than the national average over
the last five years our income has grown
more rapidly than the national average
we are second in tax burden the second
lowest tax burden in the country we have
the lowest per capita state and local
spending in the
country we're low spending low tax
burden we dramatically increased
investment and our jobs for growing
I wish America had that kind of record
and I think most people looking at us
tonight would like it if we had more
jobs and a lower spending burden on the
government mr. Perot if you were sitting
at home now and just heard this exchange
about Arkansas who would you believe
I grew up flat blocks from Arkansas
let's let's put it in perspective papa
it's a beautiful state it's a fairly
rural state it has a population less
than Chicago or Los Angeles about the
size of Dallas and Fort Worth combined
so I think probably we're making a
mistake night after night after night to
catch the nation's future on a unit
that's father why is that a mistake it's
irrelevant what
[Music]
what is problem I would I he did as
governor of Arkansas well no but you
can't you could say you know that I ran
a small grocery store on the corner
therefore I extrapolate that into the
fact that I could gone Walmart that's
not true mr. crow
I can't play picked an Arkansas company
you know there's that guy governor mr.
Pro with all respect I think it is
highly relevant and I think that a four
billion dollar budget would state in the
federal funds is not all that small and
I think the fact that I took state that
was one of the poorest states in the
country and had been for a hundred and
fifty three years and tried my best to
modernize its economy and to make the
kind of changes that have generated
support from people like the presidents
of Apple Computer and Hewlett Packard
and some of the biggest companies in
this country 24 retired generals and
admirals and hundreds of business
executives are highly relevant and you
know I'm frankly amazed that since you
grew up five blocks from there you would
think that what goes on in that state is
irrelevant I think it's been pretty
impressive not and the people who have
jobs the people who have jobs and
education and opportunities that didn't
have them ten years ago don't think it's
irrelevant at all they think it's not
irrelevant they was arrested I don't
have a dog in this fight but I'd like to
get him you think it's relevant right
governor Clinton has to operate under a
balanced budget amendment he has to do
it that is the law I'd like to see a
balanced budget amendment for America to
protect the American taxpayers and then
that would discipline not only the
executive branch but the spending
Congress the Congress had been in
control of one party his party for 38
years and we almost had it done and that
institution the House of Representatives
every one tailing clean house one of the
reasons is we almost had it done and the
speaker very able decent fellow I might
add but he twisted the arms of some of
the sponsors of that legislation and had
him change their vote what's relevant
here is that tool that discipline that
he has to live by in Arkansas and I'd
like it for the American people I want
the line-item veto I want a check off so
the Congress can't do it let people
check off their income tax 10% of it to
compel the government to cut spending
and if they can't do it if the Congress
can't do it
let them then have to go do it across
the
or what we call a sequester that's the
discipline we need and I'm working for
that to protect the American taxpayer
against the big spenders mr. president
the concerns that have been voiced about
you and they relate to something you
said in your closing statement in
Richmond the other night about the
president being the manager of crises
and that relates to an earlier criticism
that you began to focus on the economy
on health care on racial divisions in
this country only after they became
crises is that is that a fair criticism
Jim I don't think that's a fair shot I
hear it I hear it echoed by political
opponents but I don't think it's fair I
think we've been fighting for day one to
do something about the inner cities I'm
for enterprise zones I have had it in
every single proposal I've sent to the
Congress and now we hear a lot of talk
oh well we all want enterprise zones yet
the House and the Senate can't send it
down without loading it up with a lot of
you know these Christmas tree ornaments
they put on the legislation I don't
think in racial racial harmony that I'm
a laggard on that I've been speaking out
since day one we've gotten the Americans
for Disabilities Act which i think is
one of the foremost pieces of civil
rights legislation and yes it took me to
veto two civil rights quota bills
because I don't believe in quotas and I
don't think the American people believe
in quotas and I beat back the Congress
on that and then we passed a decent
civil rights bill that offers guarantees
against discrimination and in
unemployment and that is good I've
spoken out over and over again against
anti-semitism and racism and I think my
record is a member of Congress speaks
for itself on that what was the other
part of it well it's just that you've
spoken to it I mean but but the the idea
not so much in specific but that it has
to be a crisis before you it gets your
attention I don't think that's true at
all mm-hmm I don't think that's true but
but you know that others far away do you
think that's true mr. Perot I'd like to
just talk about issues and so you don't
think this is an issue no well no but
the point is that's a subjective thing
well then the subjective thing is when
does President Bush react and and I it
would be very difficult for me to answer
that in any short period of time well
then the threats phrase I'll phrase it
differently then he said the other night
in his closing words and Richmond that
one of the key things that he believes
the American people should decide
between among the three of you is who
they want in charge that this country
gets to a crisis now that's what he said
and and the bet the rap on the president
is that it's only crises time that he
focuses on some of these things so my
question to you we're going to talk
about you in a minute my question about
I thought you'd forgotten our see no no
no no but my question to you is so okay
if you don't have nothing to say about a
fine I'll go to Governor Clinton but now
I would I will let the American people
decide that I would rather not critique
the two candidates all right governor
what do you think the only thing I would
say about that is I think that on the
economy mr. Bush said for a long time
there was no recession and then said it
would be better to do nothing than to
have a compromise effort with the
Congress he really didn't have a new
economic program until over 1300 days
into his presidency and not all of his
health care initiative has been
presented to the Congress even now I
think it's important to elect a
president who is committed to getting
this economy going again and who
realizes we have to abandon trickle-down
economics and put the American people
first again and who will send programs
to the Congress in the first hundred
days to deal with the critical issues
that America is crying out for
leadership on jobs incomes the health
care crisis the need to control the
economy those things deserve to be dealt
with from day one I will deal with them
from day one they will be my first
priority not my election year concern
mr. president well I think you're
overlooking that we have had major
accomplishments in the first term but if
you're talking about protecting the
taxpayer against his friends in the
United States Congress go back to what
it was like when you had a Democratic
president and a Democratic Congress you
don't have to go back to Herbert Hoover
go back to Jimmy Carter and interest
rates were 21 percent inflation was 15
percent the misery index unemployment
inflation added together it was invented
by the Democrats went right through the
roof we've cut it in half and all you
hear about is how bad things are
you know they remember the question are
you better off well there's a home fire
better off it can refinance the home
because interest rates are down is a
senior citizen better off because the
inflation is not wiping out their
family's savings I think they are is the
guy out of work better off of course
he's not but he's not going to be better
off if we grow the government if we
invest as government Clinton Governor
Clinton says invest in more government
you got to free up the private sector
you got to let small business have more
incentives for three months about three
quarters I've been fighting three
quarters been fighting to get the
Congress to pass some incentives for
small business capital gains investment
tax allowance credit for hope for
first-time homebuyers and it's blocked
by the Congress and then if a little of
it comes my way they loaded up with
Christmas trees and tax increases and I
have to stand up and favor the taxpayer
I have to let we have to talk about Ross
Perot now you'll get me I'm sure
mr. Perot on this issue that I have
raised at the very beginning we've been
talking about which is leadership as
president of the United States the
concerns my reading of at least my
concerns about you as expressed by by
folks in the polls and other plays it
places it goes like this you had a
problem with General Motors you took
your 750 million dollars and you left
you had a problem in the spring and
summer about some personal hits that you
took as a potential candidate for
president of the United States and you
you walked out does that say anything
relevant to how you would function as
president of the United States I think
the General Motors thing is very
relevant I did everything I could to get
General Motors to face such problems in
the mid 80s while it was still for me
actually strong they just wouldn't do it
and everybody now knows the terrible
price they're paying by waiting until
it's obvious to the brain-dead that they
had problems now hundreds thousands of
good decent people whole city's up here
in this state are adversely impacted
because they would not move in a timely
way our government is that point now the
thing that I am in this race for is to
tap the American people on the shoulder
and to say to every single one of you
fix it while we're still relatively
strong if you have a heart problem you
don't wait till a heart attack to
address it so the general motors
experience is relevant at the point when
I could not get them now to address
those problems I had created so much
stress in the board who want to just
keep the Lawrence Welk music going that
they asked to buy my remaining shares I
sold them my remaining shares they went
their way I went my way because it was
obvious we had a complete disagreement
about what should be done with the
company but let's take my life in
perspective again and again on complex
difficult tasks I have stayed the course
when I was asked by our government to do
the powa within a year the Vietnamese
had sent people into Canada to make
arrangements to have me and my family
killed and I had a five small children
and my family and I decided we would
stay the course and we live with that
problem for three years then I got into
the Texans war on drug program and the
big-time drug dealers got all upset then
when I had two people imprisoned in Iran
I could have left them there I could
have rationalized
we went over we got the mountain we
brought them back home and since then
for years I have lived with the burden
of the Middle East where it's a for an
eye and tooth for a tooth country in
terms of their unhappiness for the fact
that I was successful in that effort
again and again and again in the middle
of the night in two or three o'clock in
the morning my government has called me
to take extraordinary steps for
Americans in distress and again and
again and again I have responded
I didn't wilt and I didn't quit now what
happened in July we've covered again and
again and again but I think in terms the
American people's concern about my
commitment I'm here tonight folks I
never put supporting you as you wouldn't
put me on the ballot in the other 26
states and when you ask me to come back
in I came back in and talk about not
quitting I'm spending my money on this
campaign the two parties are spending
your money taxpayer money I I put my
wallet on the table for you and your
children over 60 million dollars at
least will go into this campaign to
leave the American dream to you and your
children to get this country
straightened out because if anybody owes
it to you I do I've lived the American
dream
I'd like to your children to be able to
live it to go governor does
you're a response to the the stain the
course question about mr. Perot
I don't have any criticism of mr. Perot
I think the what I'd like to talk about
a minute is since you asked him the
question was that the General Motors
issue I don't think there's any question
that the automobile executives made some
errors in the 1980s but I also think we
should look at how much productivity has
increased lately how much labor has done
to increase productivity and how much
management has done we're still losing a
lot of auto jobs in my judgment because
we don't have a national economic
strategy that will build the industrial
base of this country just today I met
with the presidents and the vice
president of the Willow Run Union here
near here they both said they were
Vietnam veterans supporting me because I
had an economic program to put them back
to work we need an investment incentive
to modernize plant equipment we've got
to control the healthcare costs for
those people otherwise we can't keep the
manufacturing jobs here and we need a
tough trade policy that is fair that
insists on open markets in return for
open markets we ought to have a strategy
that will build the economic and
industrial base so I think mr. Perot was
right in questioning the management
practices but they didn't have much of a
partner in government here as compared
with the policies the Germans the
Japanese followed and I believe we can
do better well that's one of the things
I want to change we I know that we can
grow manufacturing jobs we did it in my
state and we can do it nationally mr.
president you have a response to this
yes well I wondered when governor
Clinton was talking to the auto workers
whether he talked about his and Senator
Gore's favoring cafe standards as a fuel
efficiency standards of 40 miles per
gallon that would break the auto
industry and show a lot of people out of
work as regarding mr. Perot I I take
some back something I said about him I
once said in a frivolous moment when he
got out of the race if he can't stand
the heat by an air-conditioning company
and I take it back because I think he
exceed he made a mistake and the thing I
find is if I make a mistake I admit it
I've never heard Governor Clinton make a
mistake but one mistake he's made is
fuel efficiency standards at forty to
forty-five miles per gallon will throw
many auto workers out of work and you
can't have it both ways there's a
pattern here of appealing to the Auto
Workers and then trying to appeal to the
spotted owl crowd or this extremes in
the environmental movement you can't do
it as president you can't have a pattern
of one side of the issue one day and on
another the next so my argument is not
with Ross Perot it is more with Governor
Clinton governor what about that charge
well on it both ways and this issue
let's just talk about the cafe standard
all right that's the fuel efficiency
standards they're now a twenty seven
point five miles per gallon per
automobile free plea I never said and I
defy you to find where I said I gave us
extensive environmental speech in April
and I said that we ought to have a goal
of raising the fuel efficiency standards
to 40 miles a gallon I think that should
be a go I've never said we should write
it into law if there is evidence that
that goal cannot be achieved the
National Science Foundation did a study
which said it would be difficult for us
to reach fuel efficiency standards in
excess of 37 miles per gallon by the
year 2000 I think we should try to raise
the fuel efficiency and let me say this
I think we ought to have incentives to
do it I think we ought to push to do it
that doesn't mean we have to write it
into the law look I am a job creator not
a job destroyer it is the bush
administration that has had no new jobs
in the private sector in the last four
years in my state we're leading the
country and private sector job growth
but it is good for America to improve
fuel efficiency we also ought to concert
convert more fuel vehicles to compress
natural gas that's another way to
improve the environment mr. Perot based
on your experience at General Motors
where you come down and this has been
thrown about back and forth during this
campaign from the very beginning about
jobs and cafes day never buddies
nibbling around the edges let's go to
the center of the bullseye the core
problem and believe me everybody on the
factory floor all over this country
knows it you implement that NAFTA
Mexican trade agreement where they pay
people a dollar an hour have no health
care no retirement no pollution controls
etc etc etc and you're going to hear a
giant sucking sound of jobs
being pulled out of this country right
at a time when we need the tax base to
pay the debt and pay down the the
interest on the debt and get our house
back in order we've got to proceed very
carefully on that anything there's a lot
I don't understand I do understand
business I do understand creating jobs I
do understand how to make things work
and I got a long history of doing that
now if you want to go to the core
problem that faces everybody in
manufacturing in this country
it's that agreement that's about to be
put into practice but here's very simple
everybody says it'll create jobs yes
it'll create bubble jobs next you know
watch this listen very carefully one
time Serge while we build factories and
ship machine tools and equipment down
there then year after year for decades
they will have jobs and I finally
thought I didn't understand it called
all the experts and they said Oh it'll
be disruptive for 12 to 15 years we
haven't got 12 days folks we cannot lose
those jobs they were eventually saying
Mexican jobs will eventually come to
seven and a half an hour hours will
eventually go down to seven a half an
hour makes you feel real good to hear
that right let's think it through here
let's be careful I'm for free trade
philosophically but I have studied these
trade agreements till the world is gone
plant and we don't have good trade
agreements across the world I hope
you'll have a chance to get into that
tonight cuz I can get right to the
senator bull's eye and tell you why
we're losing whole industries in this
country excute just for the record
though mr. Perot I take it then for your
answer you do not have a position on
whether or not enforcing the cafe
standards will cost jobs in the auto no
it will cost jobs but that's not let me
say this I'd rather if you gave me two
bad choices okay I had rather have some
jobs left here then just see everything
head self say go that means no panda in
other words and if you agree with
President Bush is that right no I'm
saying
our principle need now is to stabilize a
tax base which is the job base and
create a growing dynamic base please
folks you don't hear anything else I say
remember where the tank millions of
people at work are our tax base one
quick point if you confiscate the Forbes
400 we'll take it off you cannot balance
a budget this year kind of get your head
straight about where the taxes you're in
here out I've got to come from millions
and millions of people at work I wanted
I want to yes sir well I'm caught in the
middle on NASA
ratha says with great conviction he
opposes the North American Free Trade
Agreement I am for the North American
Free Trade Agreement my problem with
Governor Clinton once again is at one
time he's gonna make up his mind he
would see some merit in it but then he
sees a lot of things wrong with it then
the other day he says he's for it
however then we've got to pass other
legislation when you're President of the
United States you cannot have this
pattern of saying well I'm for it but
I'm on the other side of it and it's
true on this and it's true on cafe look
it Frost's were right on we got a free
trade agreement with Mexico why wouldn't
they have gone down there now you have a
differential in wages right now I just
have an honest philosophical difference
I think free trade is gonna expand our
job opportunity I think it is exports
that have saved us when we're in a
global slowdown a connected global
slowdown a recession in some country and
its free trade fair trade that needs to
be our our our hallmark and we need more
free trade agreements not fewer governor
a quick answer on on trade no want to go
on to something else
I'd like to respond to that you know mr.
Bush was very grateful when I was among
the Democrats who said he ought to have
the authority to negotiate an agreement
with Mexico neither I nor anybody else
as far as I know agreed to give him our
proxy just to say that whatever he did
was fine for the workers of this country
and for the interests of this country I
am the one who's in the middle on this
mr. Perot says it's a bad deal mr. Bush
says it's a hunky-dory deal I say on
balance it does more good than harm if
if we can get some protection for the
environment so that the Mexicans have to
follow their own environmental standards
their own labor law standards and if we
have a genuine commitment to re-educate
and retrain the American workers who
lose their jobs and reinvest in this
economy I have a realistic approach to
trade I want more trade and I know
there's some good things in that
agreement but it can sure be made better
let me just point out just today in the
Los Angeles Times
Clyde Prescott's who was one of
President Reagan's leading trade
advisors and a lifelong conservative
Republican endorsed my candidacy because
he knows that I'll have a free and fair
trade policy a hard-headed realistic
policy and not get caught up in rubber
stamping everything the Bush
administration did if I wanted to do
that why would I run for president Jim
anybody else can run the middle class
down and run the economy in a ditch I
want to change it we've got we've got
he's got about he made my case on the
one hand it's a good deal but on the
other hand I'd make it better
we've got it back that is president he
can't do it on the war where he says
well I was with the Menard majority but
I guess I would have voted with the
majority this is my point tonight we're
talking about two weeks from now you got
to decide who is going to be President
and there is this pattern that is
plagued him in the primaries and now
about trying to have it both ways on all
these issues you can't do that and if
you make a mistake say you made a
mistake and go on about your business
trying to serve the American people
right now we heard it
Ross is against it I am for it he says
on the one hand I'm for just on the
other maybe against the governor
[Applause]
that's what's that's what's wrong with
mr. Bush his whole deal is you got to be
farther against it you can't make it
better I believe we can be better I
think the American people are sick and
tired of either our solutions people
being pushed in the corner polarize to
extremes I think they want somebody with
common sense who can do what's best for
the American people and I'd be happy to
discuss these other issues but I can't
believe he is accusing me of getting on
both sides
he said trickle-down economics was due
to economics now he's its biggest
practitioner he promised but I've always
said trickle-down government is best I
could run this string out a long time
but remember this Jim those 209
Americans last surging night in Richmond
told us they wanted us to stop talking
about each other and start talking about
Americans and their problems and their
promise and I think we ought to get back
to that I'll be glad to answer any
question you have but this election all
be about the American people as Pro
is there an equal time rule here tonight
yes how do you just keep lunging in it
will I thought we were gonna have equal
time but maybe I just have to enter up
the other two is that the way it works
this trick mr. Pro you're doing fine oh
go ahead whatever you want to say say it
now that we've talked all around the
problem about free trade let's go again
to the center of the bullseye I was
gonna ask yeah I thought you wondered
what we're talking to David Idol right I
just want to make sure it's fun
lobbyists this whole thing our country
has sold out to foreign lobbyists we
don't have free trade both parties have
four lobbyists on leaves and key roles
in their campaigns and if there's
anything more unwise and that I don't
know what it is every debate I bring
this up nobody ever addresses it I would
like for them to look you in the eye and
tell you why they have people
representing foreign countries working
on their campaigns and you know you've
seen the list I've seen the list we
won't go into the names but no wonder
they if I were had those people around
me all day every day telling me it was
fair and free I might believe it but if
I look at the facts as a businessman
it's so tilted the first thing you ought
to do is just say guys if you like these
deals so well we'll give you the deal
you gave us now Japanese couldn't unload
the cars in this country if we if they
were had the same restrictions we had
and on and on and on and on and on
then I suggest to you that the core
problem one country spent four hundred
million dollars lobbying in 1988 our
country and it goes on and on and you
look at a who's who in these campaigns
around the two candidates their foreign
lobbyists taking leaves what do you
think they're gonna do when the campaign
is over go back to work at thirty
thousand bucks a month representing some
other country I don't believe that's in
the American people's interests I don't
have a one of them and I haven't taken a
penny of foreign money and I never will
mr. president how do you respond to that
mr. pros made that charge several times
[Music]
the fact that you have people working in
your campaign who are who are paid
forward lobbyists most people that are
lobbying or lobbying the Congress and I
don't think there's anything wrong with
an honest person who happens to
represent an interest of another country
for making his case that's the American
Way and what you're assuming is that
that makes the recipient of the lobbying
corrupt or their lobbyists itself
corrupt I don't agree with that but if I
found somebody that was had a conflict
of interest that would try to illegally
do something as a foreign registered
Lobby the laws covered this I don't know
why I've never understood quite why mr.
parelle was so upset about it because
one of the guys he used to have working
for him I believe had had had foreign
accounts could be wrong but I think so
and as soon as I found it out he went
out the door Chinese okay well
I don't know I think you got a look at
the integrity in the honor of the people
that are being lobbied and those that
are lobbyists the laws perfect protect
the American taxpayer in this regard if
the laws are violated so much but to
suggest if somebody represents a foreign
country on anything that met makes them
one corrupt I don't want acts payer I
don't agree with that one quick relevant
specific we're getting ready to
dismantle the airline's industry in our
country and none of you know it and I
doubt in all candor if the president
knows it but this deal that we're doing
with BAC and US air and KLM and
Northwest that guest who's on the
president's campaign big time a guy from
Northwest this deal is terribly
destructive to the US airline industry
one of the largest industries in the
world is the traveler and a tourist
business we won't be making airplanes in
this country ten years from now if we
let deals like this go through I can if
the press has any interest tonight I'll
detail it to you I won't take ten
minutes tonight all these things take a
few minutes but that's happening as we
sit here today we hammerlock the
American companies American Airlines
Delta the last few great we have because
we're trying to do this deal with these
two European country companies they
never forget they've got Airbus over
there and it's a government owned
privately owned consortium across Europe
they're dying to get the commercial
airline business Japan is trying to get
the commercial airline business I don't
think they're any villains inside
government on this issue but there sure
are a lot of people who don't understand
business and maybe you need somebody up
there who understand it all right we
have to governor I'm sorry but that
concludes my time with with well well I
had a great view onto this all right go
ahead very briefly yeah I think Ross is
right and that we do need some more
restrictions on lobbyists
we ought to make them disclose the
people they've given money to when
they're testifying before congressional
committees we ought to close the lawyers
loophole they ought to have to disclose
when they're really lobbying and we
ought to limit that we ought to have a
much longer period of time about five
years between the time when people can
leave executive branch offices and then
go
start lobbying for foreign interest I
agree with that we've wrecked the
airline industry already because well
there's all these leveraged buyouts and
all these terrible things that have
happened the airline industry we're
going to have a hard time rebuilding it
but the real thing we've got to have is
a competitive economic strategy look
what's happening to McDonnell Douglas
even Boeing is losing market share
because we let the Europeans spend
twenty five to forty billion dollars on
Airbus without an appropriate
competitive response what I want America
to do is to trade more but to compete
and win by investing in competitive ways
and we're in real trouble on that I'm
gonna be in real trouble if I don't
bring out now time well I promise it's
less than ten seconds okay
I heard Governor Clinton congratulate us
on one thing first time he said
something pleasant about this
administration productivity in this
country is up it is way up productivity
is up and that's a good thing there many
other good ones but I was glad he
acknowledged that thank you now we're
gonna make a second I'm just kind of you
know Kerr dog here I was put on the
ballot by the people not special
interest so I have to stand up for
myself in that Jim let me net it out
later on we don't debate I offered since
both sides want the Enterprise Zones but
can't get together I said I'll take a
few days off go to Washington and hold
hands Reagan we'll get it done I'll take
a few days off hold hands where you can
get this airline thing straightened out
because that's important to this country
that's kind of pathetic I have to do it
and nobody's call me yet to come up I
might mention but if they do it's easier
to fix if you all walk the enterprise
zone why don't we pass the dang thing
and do it right all right now we're
gonna bring in three other journalists
to ask questions they are Susan ruck of
CNN Jeanne Gibbons of Reuters and Helen
Thomas of United Press International you
thought you'd never get in here
[Music]
okay we're going to continue on the
subject of leadership and the first
question goes to Governor Clinton for a
two-minute answer it will be asked by
Helen Thomas Helen governor Clinton your
credibility has come into question
because of your different responses on
the Vietnam draft if you had it to do
over again would you put on the nation's
uniform and if elected could you in good
conscience send someone to war if I had
it to do over again I might answer the
questions a little better you know I'd
been in public life a long time and no
one had ever questioned my role and so I
was asked a lot of questions about
things that happened a long time ago I
don't think I answered them as well as I
could have
going back 23 years I don't know Helen I
was opposed to the war I couldn't help
that I felt very strongly about it and I
didn't want to go at the time it's easy
to say in retrospect I would have done
something differently President Lincoln
opposed the war and there were people
who said maybe he shouldn't be President
but I think he made us a pretty good
president in war time we've had a lot of
other presidents who didn't wear their
country's uniform who had to order our
young soldiers in the battle including
President Wilson and President Roosevelt
the answer is I could do that I wouldn't
relish doing it but I wouldn't shrink
from it I think that the president has
to be prepared to use the power of the
nation when our vital interests are
threatened when our tree commitments are
at stake when we know that something has
to be done that is in the national
interest and that is a part of being
president could I do it yes I could all
right a reminder now we're back on the
sinc Lewis rule which means that the
governor had it now had his answer and
then each of you will have one minute to
to respond mr. president well I've
expressed my heartfelt field difference
with Governor Clinton on organizing
demonstrations while in a foreign land
against your country when young ghetto
kids have been drafted or dying my
argument with him on the question was
about the draft is that there's this
same pattern it in in New Hampshire
Senator Kerry said you ought a level you
ought to tell the truth about it in
April 17th he's
said he'd bring out all the records on
the draft they have not been forthcoming
he got a regatta a deferment or he
didn't he got a notice or he didn't and
I I think it's this pattern that
troubles me more than the draft a lot of
decent honorable people felt as he did
on the draft but is this pattern and
again you might be able to make
amendments all the time governor but you
got to president you can't be on all
these different sides and you can't have
this pattern of saying well I did this
or I didn't then the facts come out and
you change it that's my big difference
with him on the draft it wasn't failing
to serve your minute is up sir yes sir
mr. Perot one minute I've spent my whole
adult life very close to the military
feel very strongly about the people who
go into battle for our country
appreciate their idealism their
sacrifices appreciate the sacrifices
their families make that's been
displayed again and again a very
tangible way I look on this is history I
don't look on it personally as relevant
and I could consider it really a waste
of time tonight when you consider the
issues that face our country right now
all right the next question goes to
President Bush and Jean Gibbons will
Astrid Jean
mr. president you keep saying that you
made a mistake in agreeing to a tax
increase to get the 1990 budget deal
with Congress but if you hadn't gotten
that deal you would have either had to
get repeal of the gramm-rudman deficit
Control Act or cut defense spending
drastically at a time when the country
was building up for the Gulf War and
decimate domestic discretionary spending
including such things as air traffic
control if you had it to do all over
again sir which of those alternatives
would you choose I wouldn't have take
take any any of the alternatives I
believe that I believe I made a mistake
I did it for the very reasons you say
there was one good thing that came out
of that budget agreement and that is we
put a cap on discretionary spending one
third of the President's budget is that
the president's discretion or really the
Congress and say appropriate every dime
and tell a president how to spend every
dime we put a cap on the growth of all
that spending and that's good and that's
helped but I was wrong because I thought
the tax compromise going along with one
Democratic tax increase would help the
economy I see no evidence that it has
done it so what would I have done what
should I have done I should have held
out for a better deal that would have
protected the taxpayer and not ended up
doing what we had to do or what I
thought at the time would help so I made
a mistake and I I you know the
difference I think is that I knew at the
time I was going to take a lot of
political flack I knew we'd have
somebody out there yelling read my lips
and I did it because I thought it was
right and I made a mistake that's quite
different than taking a position where
you know it's best for you that wasn't
best for me and I knew it in the very
beginning I thought it would be better
for the country than it was so there we
are mr. Perot one minute
[Music]
1:01 in leadership is to hold it is be
accountable for what you do let's go
back to the tax and budget summit
briefly nobody ever told the American
people that we increase spending a
dollar and 83 cents for every dollar
taxes raised
that's absolutely unconscionable both
parties carry a huge blame for that on
their shoulders this was not a way to
pay down the deficit this was a trick on
the American people that's not
leadership let's go back in terms of
accepting responsibility for your
actions she creates Saddam Hussein over
a 10-year period using billions of
dollars of US taxpayer money step up to
the plate and say it was a mistake to
create Noriega using taxpayer money step
up to the plate and sailors mistake if
you can't get your act together to pick
him up one day when the Panamanian major
is kidnapped in a Special Forces team is
400 yards away and it's a stroll across
the park together and if you can't get
your act together at least pick up the
panamanian major who they then killed
step up the plate and admit it was a
mistake that's leadership folks now
leaders will always make mistakes we've
created and I'm not aiming at any one
person here I'm aiming at our government
nobody takes responsibility for anything
we got a chance at I'm taking
responsibility for saying your time's up
I'm watching a lot all right governor
Governor Clinton one minute sir the
mistake that was made was making the
read my lips promised in the first place
just to get elected knowing what the
size of the deficit was
knowing what the size of the deficit was
knowing there was no plan to control
healthcare cost and knowing that we did
not have a strategy to get real economic
growth back into this economy the
choices were not good then I think at
the time the mistake that was made was
signing off on the deal late on Saturday
night in the middle of the night that's
just what the President did when he
vetoed the Family Leave Act I think what
he should have done is gone before the
American people on the front end said
listen I made a commitment and it was
wrong I made a mistake because I
couldn't have foreseen these
circumstances and this is the best deal
we can work out at the time he said it
was in the public interest at the time
and most everybody who was involved in
it I guess thought it was the real
mistake was the read my lips promised in
the first place you just can't promise
something like that just to get elected
if you know there's a good chance that
circumstances may overtake you all right
mr. Perot
the question is for you you have a
two-minute answer and it will be asked
by Susan rook mr. Perot
you've talked about going to Washington
to do what the people who run this
country wants you to do but it is the
president's duty to lead and often lead
alone how can you lead if you are
forever
speaking consensus before you act we've
talked about two different subjects in
order to lead you first have to use the
White House is a bully pulpit and lead
then you have to develop consensus or
you can't get anything done and that's
where we are now we can't get anything
done how do you get everything done when
you've got all of these political action
committees all of these thousands of
registered lobbyists 40,000 registered
lobbyists 23,000 special interest groups
and the list goes on and on and on and
the average citizen out here just
working hard every day you've got to go
to the people I just love the fact that
everybody particularly in the media goes
bonkers over the townhall I guess it's
because you will lose your right to tell
them what to think the point is they'll
get to decide what to think
[Applause]
[Music]
what you've been a love the fact that
people will listen to a guy with a bad
accent and a poor presentation manner
talking about flip charts for 30 minutes
because they want the details see oh all
the folks up there at the top said
people or the attention span the
American people is no more than five
minutes they won't watch it they're
thirsty for it you want to have a new
program in this country if you get
grassroots America excited about it and
if they tap Congress on the shoulder and
say do it charlie
it'll happen and that's a whole lot
different from these fellas running up
and down the halls crisping in ears now
and promised some campaign funds the
next election if they do it now I think
that's going back to where we started
that's having a government from the
people I think that's the essence of
leadership rather than cutting deals and
dark rooms in Washington Governor
Clinton one minute well I believe in the
town hall meetings they started with my
campaign in New Hampshire and I think
Ross Perot has done a good job in having
them and I I as you know pushed for the
debate to include the 209 American
citizens who were part of it in Richmond
a few days ago I've done a lot of them
and I'll continue to do them as
president but I'd also like to point out
that I haven't been part of what we're
criticizing in Washington tonight of the
three of us
I have balanced the government budget
twelve times I have offered in past
campaign finance reform offered push for
and passed in public referendum lobbyist
restrictions done the kinds of things
you have to do to get legislators
together not only to establish consensus
but to challenge them to change and in
twelve years as governor I guess I've
taken on every interest group there was
in my state at one time or another to
fight for change it can be done that's
why I tried to be so specific in this
campaign to have a mandate if elected so
that Congress will know what the
American people have voted for President
Bush one minute
I would like the record to show of the
panelists that Ross Perot took the first
shot at the press my favorite bumper
sticker though is annoyed the media
reelect President Bush and I just had to
work that in sorry Helen I'm gonna pay
for this later on
look you have to build a consensus but
in some things Ross mentioned to Saddam
Hussein yes we tried and yes we failed
to bring him into the family and Nations
he had the fourth largest army but then
when he moved against Kuwait I said this
will not stand and it's hard to build a
consensus we went to the UN we made
historic resolutions up there the whole
world was united our Congress was
dragging its feet Governor Clinton said
well I might have been with the Medard
let's sort sanctions work but I guess I
would have voted with the majority a
president can't do that sometimes he has
to act and in this case I'm glad we did
because if we to let sanctions work and
have tried to build a consensus on that
Saddam Hussein today would be in Saudi
Arabia controlling the world's oil
supply and he would be out he would be
there with maybe with a nuclear weapon
we busted the fourth largest army and we
did it through leadership all right
we're gonna go on to another subject now
and the subject is priority so the first
question goes to you President Bush and
Susan will ask President Bush gentlemen
I acknowledge that all of you have women
and ethnic minorities working for you
and working with you but when we look at
the circle of the key people closest to
you
your inner circle of advisers we see
white men only why and when will that
change you don't see Margaret Tutwiler
sitting in there with me today people
present the key people I think are
cabinet members are key people I think
the woman that works with me rose and
Mary is about as tough as a boot out
there and can make some discipline and
protects the taxpayer look at our
cabinet you talk about somebody strong
look at Carla Hills look at Lynne Martin
who's fighting against this glass
ceiling
doing a first-class job on it look at
our Surgeon General dr. novella you can
look all around and you'll see
first-class strong women Jim Baker's a
man yeah I agree I plead guilty to that
but look around who's look who's around
with him there I mean this is a little
defensive on your part Susan to be
honest with you we've got a very good
record appointing women to hide
positions and positions of trust and I'm
not defensive at all about it what we
got to do is keep working as the Labor
Department is doing a first-class job on
to break down discrimination to break
down the glass ceiling and I am not
apologetic at all about our record with
women we've got I think you know you
think about women in government I think
about women in business why not try to
help them with my small business program
to build some incentives into the system
III I think we're making a progress here
you got a lot of women running for
office as I said the other night I hope
a lot of them lose cuz they're Liberal
Democrats and we don't need more of them
in the Senate or more of them in the
house but nevertheless they're out there
we got some very good Republican women
running so we're making dramatic
progress mr. Perot
one minute well I've come from the
computer business and everybody knows
the women are more talented than the men
so we have a long history of having a
lot of talented women one of our first
officers was a woman the chief financial
officer she was a director and it was so
far back it was considered so odd and
even though we were a tiny little
company at the time it made all the
national magazines but in terms of being
influenced by women in being a minority
there they are right out there my wife
my four beautiful daughters and I just
have one son so he and I are surrounded
by women giving us not telling us what
to do all the time
and the rest of my minute I want to make
a very brief comment here in terms of
Saddam Hussein we told him that we
wouldn't get involved with his border
dispute and we've never revealed those
papers that were given ambassador
Glaspie on July the 25th I suggest in
the sense of taking responsibility for
your actions we lay those papers on the
table they're not the secrets to the
nuclear bomb secondly when we got upset
when he took the whole thing but to the
ordinary American out there who doesn't
know where the oil fields are in Kuwait
they're near the border we told him he
could take that northern part of Kuwait
and when he took the whole thing we went
nuts and if we didn't tell him that why
won't we even let the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee and the Senate
Intelligence Committee see the written
instructions all right jack get to the
national honor we did not say to sattim
Hussein Ross you can take the northern
part of Kuwait that is absolutely absurd
well a fee is testified and blast these
papers have been
state senator please if you have time if
you have time go through the Nexus and
Lexus polyol news articles look at what
ambassador glass peace al through the
fall and what have you and then look at
what she and Kelly and all the others
and states said at the end when they
were trying to clean it up and talk to
any head of any of those key committees
in the Senate they will not let them see
the written instructions given
ambassador glass B and I suggested in a
free society owned by the people the
American people ought to know what we
told ambassador glass B to tell Saddam
Hussein because we spent a lot of money
in wrist lives and lost lives in that
effort and did not accomplish most of
our objectives we got to wait back to
the a mere but he still got his nuclear
his chemical his bacteriological and
he's still over there right
I'd like to see those written
instructions sorry mr. president when
you just make sure that make sure that
everybody knows what's going on here
when you responded directly to to mr.
Perot yes you violated the rule your
rules now okay no no no I just want to
make sure that everybody I'd want to
make sure everybody understand if you
all want to change the rules we can do I
don't okay all right guys forgot right
to the to the Navarrete lonner
okay but governor clinton you that you
have a minute Susan I don't agree that
there are no women and minorities and
important positions in my campaign there
are many but I think even more relevant
is my record at home for most of my time
as governor a woman was my chief of
staff an african-american was my chief
cabinet officer an african-american was
my chief economic development officer it
was interesting today there was a story
today or yesterday in the Washington
Post about my economic programs and my
chief the budget officer and my chief
economic officer were both African
Americans even though the post didn't
mention that which i think is a sign of
progress the National Women's Political
caucus gave me an award one of their
good guy awards for my involvement of
women in high levels of government and
I've appointed more minorities to
positions of high level in government
than all the governors in the history of
my state combined before me so that's
what I'll do as president I don't think
we've got a person to waste and I think
I owe the American people a White House
staff the cabinet and appointments that
look like America
let that meet high standards of
excellence and that's what I'll do all
right next question though is for you
mr. Kalou for two minutes it's a
two-minute question and Helen will ask
it now on Perot
what what proof do you have that Saddam
Hussein was told that he could have the
or do you have any actual proof or are
you asking for the papers I and also I
really came in with another question is
what is this penchant you have to
investigate everyone are those
accusations correct investigating your
staff investigating the leaders of the
grassroots movement investigating
Associates of your family no they're not
correct and if you look at my life for
the first until I got involved in this
effort I was one person and then after
the public and dirty tricks group got
through with me I'm another person which
I consider an absolutely sick operation
and all of you in the press know exactly
what I'm talking about
they investigated every single one of my
children they investigated my wife they
interviewed all of my children's friends
from childhood on they went to
extraordinary sick links and I just
found it amusing that they would take
two or three cases where I was involved
in lawsuits and would engage an
investigator the lawyers would gauge an
investigator which is common and the
only difference between me and any other
businessman that has the range of
businesses I have is I haven't had that
many lawsuits so that's just a none of
those little fruit loopy things they
make up to try to instead of facing
issues to try to redefine a person's
person that's running against them
this goes on night and day I will do
everything I can as I get up there to
make dirty tricks a thing of the past
one of the two groups has raised it into
an art form it's a sick art form now
let's go back to Saddam Hussein we gave
the Ambassador glaze to be written
instructions that's a fact we've never
let the Congress and the Foreign
Relations Senate Intelligence Committee
see them that's a fact
ambassador glass we did a lot of talking
right after July the 25th and that's a
fact and it's all the newspapers and you
pull all of it it wants and read it and
I did and it's pretty clear what she and
Kelly and the other key guys around
thing thought they were doing then at
the end of the world when they had to go
testify about it their stories are a
total disconnect from what they said in
all the September in October so I say
this is very simple Saddam Hussein
released a tape as you know claiming it
was a transcript of their meeting where
she said we will not become involved in
your border dispute and in fact you can
take the northern part of the country we
later said no that's not true I said
well this is simple what were her
written instructions we guard those like
the secrets to the atomic bomb literally
now I say who's country is this it's
ours who will get hurt if we lay those
papers on the table the worst thing is
it's again it's a mistake nobody did any
of this with evil intent
I just object to the fact that we cover
up and hide things whether it's
iran-contra a rock gate or you name it
it's a steady stream Governor Clinton
you have one minute let's take a mr.
Bush for the moment at his word he's
right we don't have any evidence at
least that our government did tell
Saddam Hussein he could have that part
of Kuwait and let's give him a credit he
deserves for organizing Operation Desert
Storm and Desert Shield it was a
remarkable event but let's look at where
I think the real mistake was made in
1988 when the war between Iraq and Iran
ended we knew Saddam Hussein was a
tyrant we had dealt with him because he
was against Iran the enemy of my enemy
maybe is my friend all right the war is
over we know he's dropping mustard gas
on his own people we know he's
threatened to incinerate half of Israel
several government departments several
had information that he was converting
our aid to military purposes and trying
to develop weapons of mass destruction
but in late 89 the President signed a
secret policy saying we were going to
continue to try to improve relations
with him and we sent him some sort of
communication on the eve of his invasion
of Kuwait that we still wanted better
relations so I think what was wrong I
give credit where credit is due but the
responsibility was in coddling Saddam
Hussein when there was no reason to do
it and when people at high levels in our
government knew he was trying to do
things that were outrageous
mr. president you have a moment a minute
well it's awful easy when you're dealing
with
9090 hindsight we did try to bring
saddam hussein into the family of
nations he did have the fourth largest
army all our Arab allies out there
thought we ought to do just exactly that
and when he crossed the line I stood up
and looked into the camera and I said
this aggression will not stand and we
formed a historic coalition and we
brought him down and we destroyed the
fourth army largest army and the
battlefield was searched and there
wasn't one single iota of evidence that
any US weapons were on that battlefield
and the nuclear capability has been
searched by the United Nations and there
hasn't been one single scintilla of
evidence that there's any US technology
involved in it and what you're seeing on
all this Iraq gate is a bunch of people
who were wrong on the war trying to
cover their necks here and and try to do
a little revisionism and I cannot let
that stand because it isn't true yes we
had grain credits for Iraq and there
isn't any evidence that those grain
credits were diverted into weaponry none
none whatsoever
and so I I just have to say it's fine
you can't say there governor Clinton and
say well I think I'd have been I've
supported the minority let sanctions
work or wish they go away but I would
have voted with the majority come on
that's not leadership all right the next
question goes to Governor Clinton and
Jean Gibbons we'll ask it Jane governor
an important aspect of leadership is of
course anticipating problems during the
1988 campaign there was little or no
mention of the savings and loan crisis
that has cost the American people
billions and billions of dollars now
there are rumblings that a commercial
bank crisis is on the horizon is there
such a problem sir if so how bad is it
and what will it cost to clean it up
Jeane there is a problem in the sense
that there are some problem banks and on
December 19th new regulations will go
into effect which will in effect give
the government the responsibility to
close some banks that are not
technically insolvent but that are
plainly in trouble on the other hand I
don't think that we have any reason to
believe that the dimensions of this
crisis are anywhere near as great as the
savings and loan crisis the mistake that
both parties made in Washington with the
S&L business was deregulating them
without proper capital requirements
proper oversight and regulation proper
training of the executives many people
predicted what happened and it was a
disaster the banking system in this
country is fundamentally sound with some
weak banks I think that our goal ought
to be first of all not to politicize it
not to frighten people secondly to say
that we have to enforce the law in two
ways we don't want to overreact as as
the federal regulators have in my
judgment on good banks so that they've
created credit crunches that has made
our recession worse in the last couple
of years but we do want to act prudently
with the banks that are in trouble we
also want to say that insofar as is
humanly possible the banking industry
itself should pay for the cost of any
bank failures the taxpayers should not
and that will be my policy and I believe
we have a good balanced approach we can
get the good banks loaning money again
in the credit crunch have proper
regulation on the ones that are in
trouble and not overreact it is a
serious problem but I don't see it it's
the kind of terrible terrible problem
that the SNL problem was president Bush
one minute well I don't I don't believe
it would be appropriate for a president
to suggest that the banking system is
not sound it is sound there's some
problem banks out there but what we need
is financial reform we need some real
financial reform banking reform
legislation and I have proposed that and
when I am reelected
I believe with effort one of the first
things ought to be to press a new
Congress not beholden to the old ways to
pass financial reform legislation that
modernizes the banking system doesn't
doesn't put a lot of in a bit
on it and protects the depositors but
through keeping the FDIC sound but I I
think that the I just was watching some
of the proceedings the American Bankers
Association and I think the general
feeling is most of the banks are sound
certainly there's no comparison here
between what happened to the SNL's and
where the banks stand right now in my
view mr. Perot one minute well nobody's
gotten into the real issue yet on the
savings alone again nobody's got a
business background I guess the whole
problem came out in 1984 president attic
States was told officially it was a
twenty billion dollar problem these
crooks now Willie Sutton would have gone
to own a savings loan rather than rob
banks because you're he robbed banks cuz
that's where the money is owning the
saving loan it's where the money was
yeah in 1984 they were told i believe
the vice president was in charge of
deregulation nobody touched that
tar-baby told the day after election in
1988 because they were flooding both
parties with crooked pac money and it
was in many cases stolen pac money now
you and I never got a ride on a lot of
these yachts and fancy things at boat
but you and I are paying for it
and they buried it too right after
election now if you believe the
Washington Post and you believe this
extensive study that's been done and I'm
reading it right after election day this
year they're gonna hit us for the
hundred banks it'll be a hundred billion
dollar problem now if that's true just
tell me now yeah I'm growing up I can
deal with it I'll pay my share but just
tell me now don't bury it until after
the election twice I say that to both
political parties the people deserve
that since we have to pick up the tab
you got the PAC money we'll pay the tab
just tell us all right mr. Perot the
next question we're going into a new
round here on category just called
differences and the question goes to you
mr. Perot and gene will asking gene mr.
Perot aside from the deficit what
government policy or policies do you
really want to do something about what
what really sticks in your craw about
conditions in this country beside the
deficit the you would want to fix as
president the debt and the deficit well
if you watched my television show the
other night you saw it and if you're
watching thirsty Friday say to this week
you'll get more so a shameless plug
there mr. president
Hey but in a nutshell we've got to
reform our government or we won't get
anything done we have a government that
doesn't work all these specific examples
I'm getting tonight if you had a
business like that yeah they'd be
leading you away and boarding up the
doors we have a government that doesn't
work it's supposed to come from the
people it comes at the people the people
need to take that government back you've
got to reform Congress they've got to be
servants to the people again you've got
to reform the White House we've got to
turn this thing around and it's a long
list of specific Adams and I've covered
it again and again in print and on
television but very specifically the key
thing is to turn the government back to
the people and take it away from special
interest and have people go to
Washington to serve who can give
themselves a 23 percent pay raise
anywhere in the world except Congress
who would have twelve hundred airplanes
worth two billion dollars a year just to
fly around in I don't have her free
reserved parking place at National
Airport why should my servants I don't
have an indoor gymnasium and an indoor
tennis court and indoor every other
thing they can think of I don't have a
place where I can go make free TV to
send to my constituents to try to
brainwash them to run to elect me the
next time
and I'm paying for all that for those
guys I'm gonna be running an ad pretty
soon that shows they promised us they
were gonna hold the line on spending a
tax and budget something and I'm gonna
show how much they've increased this
little stuff they do for themselves and
it is silly putty folks and the American
people have had enough of it step one if
I get up there we're going to clean that
up you say how can I get Congress to do
that I'll have millions of people it
might show a shoulder to shoulder with
me and we will see it done
warp speed because it's wrong it's just
we've turned the country upside down
Governor Clinton you have one minute
I would just point out on the the point
mr. Perot made I agree that that we need
to cut spending in Congress I've called
for a 25% reduction in congressional
staffs and expenditures but the White
House staff increased its expenditures
by considerably more than Congress has
in the last four years under the Bush
administration and Congress has actually
spent a billion dollars less than
President Bush asked them to spend
now when you out spend Congress you're
really swinging that however is not my
only passion the real problem in this
country is that most people are working
hard and falling further behind my
passion is to pass a jobs program and
get in comes up with an investment
incentive program to grow jobs in the
private sector to waste less public
money and invest more to control health
care costs and provide for affordable
health care for all Americans and to
make sure we've got the best-trained
workforce in the world that is my
passion we've got to get this country
growing again in this economy strong
again while we can't bring down the
deficit economic growth is the key to
the future of this country
President Bush one-minute on government
reform sir government reform so you
could do to restore yes yeah exactly to
well to respond to what the subject did
mr. Frohman oh how about this for a
government reform policy reduce the
White House staff by a third after or at
the same time the Congress does the same
thing for their staff term limits for
members of the United States Congress
give the government back to the people
let's do it that way the president has
term limits let's let's limit some of
these guys sitting out here tonight term
limits and then how about a balanced
budget amendment to the Constitution
forty-three state more than that have
states have it I believe let's try that
and you want to do something about all
this extra spending that concerns mr.
Perot and me okay how about a line item
veto 43 governors have that and give it
to the president and if the Congress
isn't big enough to do it let the
president have a shot if this excess
spending a line-item veto that means you
can take a line and cut out some of the
pork out of a meaningful bill governor
clinton keeps hitting me on vetoing
legislation well that's the only
protection the taxpayer has against some
of these reckless four
programs up there and I'd rather be able
to just line it right out of there and
get on about passing some good stuff but
leave out the garbage all right we
line-item veto there's a good reform
program for it
all right a next question goes to
Governor Clinton yeah
you have two minutes governor and Susan
will ask governor Clinton you said that
you will raise taxes on the rich people
with incomes of $200,000 a year or
higher a lot of people are saying that
you will have to go lower than that
much lower will you make a pledge
tonight below which an income level that
you will not go below I'm looking for
numbers sir not just a concept I plant
you can read my plan my plan says that
we want to raise marginal incomes on
family incomes above $200,000 from 31 to
36 percent that we want to ask foreign
corporations simply to pay the same
percentage of taxes on their income that
American corporations play in America
that we want to use that money to
provide over 100 billion dollars in tax
cuts for investment in new plant and
equipment for small business for new
technologies and for middle-class tax
relief now I can tell you this I will
not raise taxes on the middle class to
pay for these programs if the money does
not come in there to pay for these
programs we will cut other government
spending or we will slow down the face
end of the programs I am NOT gonna raise
taxes in the middle class to pay for
these programs now furthermore I am NOT
gonna tell you read my lips on anything
because I cannot foresee what
emergencies might develop in this
country and the president said never
never never would never would he raise
taxes in New Jersey with him today
Marlin Fitzwater his spokesman said no
that's not a promise so I think even he
has learned that you can't say read my
lips because you can't know what
emergencies might come up but I can tell
you this I'm not going to raise taxes on
middle-class Americans to pay for the
programs I recommend it read my plan and
you can you know how you can trust me
about that because you know in the first
debate mr. Bush made some news he had
just said Jim Baker was gonna be
Secretary of State when the first debate
he said no now he's gonna be responsible
for domestic economic policy well I'll
tell you I'll make some news in the
third
debate the person responsible for
domestic economic policy in my
administration will be Bill Clinton I'm
gonna make both decision and I won't
raise taxes we mill class taking I fell
down
there's no bush you have one minute
that's what worries me that he's going
to be responsible he's going to do and
he would do
and they would do for the United States
what he done to Arkansas he would do for
the United States what he's done to
Arkansas we do not want to be the lowest
of the low we are not a nation in
decline we are rising nation now my
problem is I heard what he said he said
I want to race take it from the rich
raise 150 billion dollars from the rich
to get it to get 150 billion in new
taxes you got to go down to the guy
that's making thirty six thousand six
hundred dollars and if you want to pay
for the rest of his plan all the other
spending programs
you're gonna sock it to the working man
so when you hear tax the rich mr. and
mrs. America watch your wallet lock your
wallet because he's coming right after
you just like Jimmy Carter did and just
like you're gonna get you're gonna end
up with interest rates at 21 percent and
you're gonna have inflation going
through the roof yes we're having tough
times but we do not need to go back to
the failed policies of the past when you
had a Democratic president and a
spendthrift Democratic Congress mr. oh
yeah
then you have permitted mr. Bush to
break the rules he said to defend the
honor of the country what about the
honor of my state we ranked first in the
country and job growth we got the lowest
spending state and local in the country
and the second lowest tax burden and the
difference between Arkansas and the
United States is that we're going in the
right direction and this country is
going in the wrong direction and I have
to defend the honor of my state we've
got we've got a watch according
according to my calculations we have a
wash and we go to mr. Perot for one
minute in other words the violation of
the rule that's what I met mr. so I'm
the only one it's untarnished attack all
right I'm sure I'll do it before it's
over
keeping hearsay we all come up with
images images don't fix anything I think
yeah I'm starting to understand it you
stay around this long enough you think
about it you took me if you talk about
it in Washington you think you did it if
you've been on television about it you
think you did it what we need is people
to stop talking and start doing a real
problem here is they have both have
plans that will not work The Wall Street
Journal said your numbers don't add up
and you take it out on charts you look
at all the studies the different groups
are done you go out four or five six
years we're still drifting along with a
huge deficit
so let's come back to harsh reality and
what I you know everybody said jeepers
oh you're tough I'm saying well this is
not as tough as World War two and it's
not as tough as a revolution and it's
fair shared sacrifice to do the right
thing for our country and for our
children and it will be fun if we all
work together to do it all right this is
the last question it goes to President
Bush for a two-minute answer and it will
be asked by Helen mr. president why have
you dropped so dramatically in the
leadership polls from the high 80s to
the 40's and you have said you will do
anything you have to do to get reelected
what can you do in two weeks to win
re-election well I think the answer to
why the drop I think has been the
economy in the doldrums why I'll win is
I think I have the best plan of the
three of us up here to do something
about it mine does not grow the
government it does not invest have
government invest it says we need to do
better in terms of stimulating
private business we got a big
philosophical difference here tonight
between one who thinks the government
can do all these things through
tax-and-spend and one who thinks it
ought to go the other way and so I
believe the answer is I'm gonna win it
because I'm getting into focus my agenda
for America's renewal and also I think
that Governor Clinton's had pretty much
of a free ride on looking at
specifically at the Arkansas record he
keeps criticizing us criticizing me I'm
the incumbent fine but he's an incumbent
and we've got to look at all the facts
they're almost at the bottom on every
single category we can't do that to the
American
and then Helen I really believe where
people are going to ask this question
about trust because I do think there's a
pattern by governor clinton of saying
one thing to please one group and then
trying to please another group and I
think that pattern is a dangerous thing
to suggest would work for the Oval
Office it doesn't work that way when
you're President Truman is right the
buck stops there and you have to make
decisions even when it's against your
own interests and I've done that it's
against my political interest to say go
ahead and go along with the tax increase
but I did what I thought was right at
the time so I think people are gonna be
looking for trust and experience and
then ice mentioned it the other night I
think if there's a crisis people are
gonna say well George Bush has taken us
through some tough crises and we trust
him to do that and so I'll make the
appeal on a wide array of issues I'm
also I got a philosophical difference I
got to watch the clock here I don't
think we're a declining nation the whole
world has had economic problems we're
doing better than a lot of the countries
in the world and we're gonna lead the
way out of this economic recession
across this world an economic slowdown
here at home mr. Perot you think I'll
win mr. Perot you have oh sorry excuse
me sir broke mr. Perot you have one
minute I'm the last one right no
governor Clinton hasn't met it after you
then we have the closing today for one
minute I've tears press I'm totally
focused on the fact that we may have
bank failures and nobody entered it I'm
totally focused on the fact that we are
still evading the issue of the glaspie
papers I'm totally focused on the fact
that we still could have Enterprise
Zones according to both parties but we
don't so I am still focused on gridlock
I guess and I am also focused on the
fact that isn't it a paradox that we
have the highest productivity in our
workforce in the industrialized world
and at the same time had the largest
trade deficit and at the same time
ranked behind nine other nations in what
we pay our most productive people in the
world and if we're losing whole
industries overseas now can't somebody
agree with me that the government is
breaking business
legs were these trade agreements they're
breaking businesses legs in a number of
different ways we have an adversarial
relationship that's destroying jobs and
sending them overseas while we have the
finest workers in the world
Keith and manufactory worker has nothing
to do with anything except putting it
together on the factory floor it's our
obligation to make sure that we give him
the finest products in the world to put
together and we don't break his legs in
the process governor Clinton one minute
I really can't believe mr. Bush is still
trying to make trust an issue after
reading my lips and 15 million new jobs
and embracing what he called voodoo
economics and embracing an export
enhancement program for farmers he
threatened to veto and going all around
the country giving out money and
programs that he wants to post but the
main thing is he still didn't get it
from what he said the other night to
that fine woman on our program that the
209 people in Richmond they don't want
us talking about each other they want us
to talk about the problems of this
country I don't think you'll be
reelected because trickle-down economics
is a failure and he's already offering
more of it and what he's saying about my
program is just not true
look at the Republicans that have
endorsed me high-tech executives in
Northern California look at that 24
generals and admirals retired have
endorsed me including the deputy
commander of Desert Storm look at Sarah
Brady Jim Brady's wife as president for
Aegon's press secretary who endorsed me
because he knuckled under to the NRA and
wouldn't fight for the Brady Bill we've
got a broad-based coalition that goes
beyond party because I am going to
change this country and make it better
with the help of the American people all
right now that
that was the final that was the final
question and an answer and we now go to
the closing statements first I'd like to
thank the Commission and my opponents
for participating in these debates and
making them possible I think the real
winners of the debates were the American
people I was especially moved in
Richmond a few days ago when 209 of our
fellow citizens got to ask us questions
they went a long way toward reclaiming
this election for the American people
and taking their country back I want to
say since this is the last time I'll be
on a platform with my opponents that
even though I disagree with mr. Perot on
how fast we can reduce the deficit and
how much we can increase taxes on the
middle class
I really respect what he's done in this
campaign to bring the issue of deficit
reduction to our attention I'd like to
say to mr. Bush even though I've got
profound differences with him I do honor
his service to our country I appreciate
his efforts and I wish him well
I just believe it's time to change I
offer a new approach it's not
trickle-down economics it's been tried
for 12 years and it's failed more people
are working harder for Less a hundred
thousand people a month losing their
health insurance unemployment going up
our economy slowing down we can do
better and it's not tax-and-spend
economics it's invest and grow put our
people first control health care costs
and provide basic health care to all
Americans have an education system
second to none and revitalize the
private economy that is my commitment to
you it is the kind of change that can
open up a whole new world of
opportunities to America as we enter the
last decade of this century and move
toward the 21st century
I want a country where people who work
hard and play by the rules are rewarded
not punished
I want a country where people are coming
together across the lines of race and
region and income I know we can do
better
it won't take miracles and it won't
happen overnight but we can do much much
better if we have the courage to change
thank you very much
[Music]
President Bush
your closing statements are three weeks
from now to two weeks from tomorrow
America goes to the polls and you're
gonna have to decide who you want to
lead this country to economic recovery
on jobs that's the number-one priority
and I believe my program for stimulating
investment encouraging small business
brand-new approach to education
strengthening the American family and
yes creating more exports is the way to
go I don't believe in trickle-down
government I don't believe in larger
taxes and larger government spending on
foreign affairs some think it's
irrelevant I believe it's not we're
living in an interconnected world a
whole world is having economic
difficulties the u.s. is doing better
than a lot but we've got to do even
better and if a crisis comes up I ask
who D who has the judgment and the
experience and yes the character to make
the right decision and lastly the other
night on character governor Clinton said
it's not the character of the president
but the character of the presidency I
couldn't disagree more horace greeley
said the only thing that endures is
character and I think it was justice
black who talked about great nations
like great men must keep their word and
so the question is who will safeguard
this nation who will safeguard our
people and our children I need your
support I ask for your vote and may God
bless the United States of America
with all your closing statement
mr. Poirot your closing statements are
to the millions of five decent people
who did the unthinkable and took their
country back in their own hands and put
me on the ballot
let me pledge to you that tonight is
just the beginning
these next two weeks we will be going
full steam ahead to make sure that you
get a voice and that you get your
country back this Thursday night on ABC
from 8:30 to 9:00 Friday night on NBC
from 8:00 to 8:30 and Saturday night on
CBS from 8:00 to 8:30 we'll be down in
the trenches under the hood working on
fixing the old car to get it back on the
road yeah question is can we win
absolutely we can win because it's your
country question really is who do you
want in the White House it's that simple
now you got to stop letting these people
tell you who to vote for you got to stop
letting these folks in the press tell
you you're throwing your boat away you
got to start using your own hand
then the question is can we govern I
love that one who we is you and me you
bet your hat we can govern because we
will be in there together and we will
figure out what to do and you won't
tolerate gridlock you won't tolerate
injuries meandering and wandering around
and you won't tolerate non-performance
and believe me anybody knows me
understands I have a very low tolerance
for non-performance also together we can
get anything done president mentioned
that you need the right person on a
crisis well folks we got one and that
crisis is a financial crisis pretty
simply who's the best qualified person
up here on the stage to create jobs make
their decision and vote on November the
3rd I suggest you might consider
somebody who's creative jobs second
who's the best person to manage money I
suggest you pick a person who
successfully managed money who's the
best person to get results and not talk
look at the record make your decision
and finally who would you give your
pension fund and your savings account to
to manage and last one who would you ask
to be the trustee of your estate and
take care of your children if something
happened to you finally to your students
up there god bless you I'm doing this
for you I want you to have the American
dream
to the American people
two American people I'm doing this
because I love you that's it thank you
very much all right bye Thanks
this bro
Thank You mr. Perot Thank You mr.
president Thank You Governor Clinton for
being with us tonight in the and the
previous debates thank you to the panel
the only thing that is left to be said
is from Michigan State University in
East Lansing I'm Jim Lehrer thank you
and good night
[Applause]
[Music]
throughout the evening some quick
reactions beginning with CNN special
assignment ken bode Ken what did you
think well it's too bad it didn't start
as well it ended I thought for a while
they were going to have a net
information loss we did have good issues
raised tonight we had issues of
Clinton's record in Arkansas Bush's
record with Iraq and SNL's all very good
things I think overall Bill Clinton
didn't get a pass tonight but didn't get
hurt badly and when it's all said and
done one Republican said today in order
for George Bush to win he has to take a
pistol out and shoot Bill Clinton at
this stage he didn't have a pistol he
didn't shoot Bill Clinton Clinton walks
off the stage unscarred pretty much and
so is Ross Perot would say you can hear
out there a giant sucking sound and what
it says is this election is over in 14
days that's when it's over all right
Chicago Tribune's Elaine Povich Elaine
what did you think well I think
President Bush didn't do much for the
gender gap this evening you know that's
one of the issues where he's kind of
weak is with women and when he called
Susan rook of CNN defensive I think
there were a lot of women around the
country who cringed whatever points he
was trying to make against Bill Clinton
in terms of his alleged pattern of
duplicitous Nisour anything like that
may have been a bit tempered by his
attitude towards the question about
women and his cabinet I think though
Clinton held his own tonight he didn't
really beat up too much on President
Bush in fact Ross Perot did most of that
I think Bill Clinton knows Perot a big
pat on the back for hitting at Bush the
way he did i bob mater to the Oakland
Tribune Bob your reaction
Catherine I don't know what the spin
doctors are gonna say it to you in a few
minutes but let me tell you what I think
from what I just saw I clearly think I
saw George Bush just lose the election
the jury was still out as to whether
George Bush had a vision for the future
in America tonight was his very last
night his last opportunity to speak to
the American people
he sank instead with incoherent and
stale agenda the same one we've been
hearing out for weeks Bill Clinton on
the other hand was cool calm and
collected and Ross Perot I think at the
end was running for Financial Planner
rather than for president but in any
event he did no good for this car
professor Larry saboteur